---
title: Seaborn Loops
date: 2025-07-11
---

https://www.kaggle.com/code/nathanpierce/mtg-stats-over-time

Happy Friday!  After an hour or two of work today, I was able to create a for loop that created 6 plots (one for each color as well as colorless), showing a line for each stat.  One of the major hurdles I ran into was Seaborn only printing the plot of the final object in the dictionary.  I wasn't completely sure if this was a Seaborn issue or just a way that things are presented in Kaggle, but to attempt to work around it, rather than creating each individual dataset and then using a for loop to plot them, I created a loop that would filter out the data needed for each plot, then create the plot.  While setting this up, I learned that adding plt.show() to the for loop will print out each plot created in the loop.  Overall I didn't mind that the dataframe query and plot setup happened in the same loop.  One interesting thing that I found by plotting this out is that when power and toughness increased or decreased over a given period of time, it commonly increased or decresased by the same magnitude.  Just for practice, I also created a for loop that plotted the average toughness of each color onto a single graph.  It didn't look that great, but I know that could be improved if I put some more time into it.

I think I'm satisfied with the practice that I got out of this exercise.  Next week, I'll be focusing on the [Data & Research Methods Project](https://nebigdatahub.org/drm-project/), but I'd like to return to Kaggle and find a dataset of something that I find interesting, but am not familiar in, and see what I can do with that.  I think it would be helpful to practice on something I don't have a familiarity to lean on.

That's all for now, have a great weekend!
