---
title: July Update and Foray Into Kaggle
date: 2025-07-10
---

I can't believe it's been a month since my last post, time does fly!  At this point, I've conisdered the MtG Commander Project to be in a "good enough" state, and wanted to move forward on other fronts.  Since then, I've completed a Coursera course that covered the Python packages Numpy, Pandas, Matplotlib, and Seaborn.  It was a pretty high level overview of each that didn't give much room for exploration, but it was a good introduction to the basics I think.

Between that and exposure to another course, I finally learned the beauty of Jupyter and Python notebooks!  While my next big learning effort is going to be going through the [Data & Research Methods Project](https://nebigdatahub.org/drm-project/), which provides a mock scenario for going through and learning some Data Science skills such as data set cleaning, ethics, and analysis, I'm starting a Kaggle project as something to fiddle with and practicing more data-related Python skills.

This project is going to also be related to Magic, the Gathering, and taking data from Scryfall's [Bulk Data Files](https://scryfall.com/docs/api/bulk-data).  Starting out, I'd like to just practice manipulating the data and getting a handle on that, but the main question I'd like to answer is "for each color, how have the power, toughness, and overall stats for creatures over the history of Magic?"  This seems like a pretty simple question, and my guess is that overall we're going to see an increase, but I'd like to practice visualizing the data in an interesting way.

https://www.kaggle.com/code/nathanpierce/mtg-stats-over-time

This week, I was able to get the data uploaded and query the rows that I'm interested in for this project.  Getting the queries down right took some time, but thankfully my practice with Regex was helpful in a couple of instances.  I was able to complete a line chart for all creatures (not separated by colors) that shows the change of power, toughness, and average stats over time, but not quite in a way that I'd prefer.  Rather than creating a Seaborn lineplot for each category, I think I would prefer to pivot the power, toughness, and average into a single column so that I can take advantage of some of Seaborn's other features such as hue.  

That's all for now, stay tuned for more!

***bonus credit***

I was able to do a little extra work on this today.  I made 3 groups of 6 subplots, one group for power, one for toughness, and one for average stats.  The subplots then represented each color and contained the overall average along with that color's average.  Based on my knowledge of the game, the results didn't surprise me too much.  To put it together, I repeated a lot of code that I think could be repleaced with a for loop, so that will be my next goal.
